---
correlation:
  - Награбленные ссылки
---
## чтение мотивов
Which ability is most commonly associated discovering people's intimacies? Also good charm for it in solar?
    
Socialize is the only Ability associated with discovering Intimacies, and Motive-Discerning Technique is very effective.
There are some specialized read intentions offshoots here and there, such as:
 
 - **Genius Palate Summation** (Awareness): Read emotional state of the one who prepared a meal or drink.
 - **Unsurpassed Taste and Smell Discipline** (Awareness): Smell moods.
 - **Consumer-Evaluating Glance** (Bureaucracy): Determine if a buyer intends to betray or cheat the Solar.
 - **Deft Official's Way** (Bureaucracy): Add (Bureaucracy) bonus dice to read intentions with _any_ ability for the rest of the scene, but only to produce bureaucratic results.
 - **Measuring Glance** (Bureaucracy): To determine the strongest or most relevant Intimacy an individual has to an organization of which they are a member.
 - **Watchful Eyes of Heaven** (Integrity): When someone is about to violate a Principle that the Solar holds, the Solar gets +3 non-charm successes to discern that Principle. Explicitly compatible with other ability charms.
 - **Empathic Recall Discipline** (Investigation): Discern the perpetrator's intent after casing a crime scene.
 - **Sagacious Reading of Intent** (Linguistics): Automatically discern the writer's intentions after reading their writing.
 
 And so on. (Perception + Socialize) is the default roll, as described on Exalted p218, and therefore Socialize charms are going to give you the most broad applicability. There exist other specialized read intentions actions in e.g. Lotus Eye Tactics from Throne Shadow style (Sidereals p319).
 
 What would be the immaculate opinion of a dream-souled acting on blessed isle? In this case, mostly defending peasants and facing bandits.
## скрытность и темница
So, let's have a fun question!
How do you hold a Larceny Supernal Night with a healthy dose of Stealth captive?


Messing with his mind

You keep them captive with the only prison they can't escape. The grave.

Killing them would be the ideal solution, yes.
But let's say for whatever selected reason, you can't murder the shit out of them.


Kerlei the Chain, Exigent of Rightful Imprisonment, finds herself puzzled by her inability to physically contain a Solar captive. No matter how complex his torment or how inescapable his cage, he simply keeps getting out. So, the next time she finds the Solar, she opts for a different kind of imprisonment; she approaches in his sleep, and imprisons his consciousness within that sleep, an endless dream taking hold of him. While he dreams, she carries him to the Nail of Truth to be properly contained in the off case he ever woke up.


Nights are as capable of breaking out of mental prisons as the basic exalted: that is, it's not as hard for them as humans, but they aren't keyed towards escaping such things
Putting someone in an illusion of an escher maze, making them think they're being held in an impossible maze they just need to solve, laying breadcrumbs for them to solve it. Forever.
They're constantly just one more step away from breaking out

A Night who is all in on Larceny and Stealth is not going to have much conceptual space left for Integrity. NPCs, at least


That or you just paralyze every muscle, but y'know. Ethics

I wouldn't be surprised if the Night could escape even through paralysis
Considering that their anima power alone already lets them ignore a whole ass -3 penalty or so
And their Charms just ensure the rest
"okay I'm paralyzed but I use Invisible Statue Spirit and now no one can see me"



Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:41
re this though, I don't know if there's much in Larceny that is going to get you out of being actually restrained
door evading technique can't get you through solid stone
Alistair — 06.08.2021 7:42
It should
It's so fucking bad as written
Anyway, yeah, I wouldn't say any form of physical restraint is gonna keep a Larceny Supernal busy for long
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:43
get your earth aspect to do a sandtrap
Alistair — 06.08.2021 7:44
I'd rather get my Earth Aspect to put them to sleep for 500 years
That's the much, much easier way
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:44
i'm not familiar with the DB charmset
Alistair — 06.08.2021 7:44
I am, and they do get some nasty curse-like things that would be much better if the mechanics behind them were written with a fun mentality behind them rather than "yeah let's kneecap the DBs because sacred cow"
Curses and illusions are much easier ways to trap Nights
Than physical restraints, especially Larceny Supernals
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:45
the real error is relying on any one single thing
do a jail inside a Tomb of Dreams-alike
Alistair — 06.08.2021 7:46
Even multiple physical restraints will eventually, sooner than later, fail. With these things you want to take the easy way out
Because even the easy way out is fucking ridiculously hard to pull off
If you go for the difficult one you might as well throw yourself off a cliff and you'll achieve about the same result
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:47
I actually did develop the Aftershock Containment Manse and I had to think about a bunch of this stuff and my end result was 'put them out cold'
Alistair — 06.08.2021 7:47
Hence why I said trapping the Night in an endless dream, or the Escher Maze idea from raab
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:48
the supermax prisoners of the Manse are inside solid jade cells that don't have doors
Silent Maid of Ash (He/Him) — 06.08.2021 7:48
Tai Lungs prison feels very "Prison designed to hold a dawn", eh?
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:48
they spend all their time sealed in pokeballs
Alistair — 06.08.2021 7:48
I still believe Door Evading Technique should bypass walls, not just doors, but ships and sails
And ye, raab
Tai Lung just learned a little Larceny in his time there
Silent Maid of Ash (He/Him) — 06.08.2021 7:49
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WyyckbYlsag
YouTube
Cinepedia
Tai Lung prison escape scene | Kung Fu Panda 🐼
Изображение
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:50
the cell that holds Ramethus doesn't even exist in Creation, it's literally Elsewhere
if you yourself have to restrain a night, you're probably fucked, but you can Fiat it with enough jargon
Get some Sidereals to do a dragon break on the place you're holding
excise it from Creation except on the third day of calibration
Silent Maid of Ash (He/Him) — 06.08.2021 7:53
Spoilers for my Lunars game that Zero is in (No peeking!)
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:53
put it at the bottom of the ocean, that worked for the Jade Prison 
Silent Maid of Ash (He/Him) — 06.08.2021 7:54
I have an interesting take on the prison they have in Pneuma
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:54
the Nail?
Silent Maid of Ash (He/Him) — 06.08.2021 7:54
Yeah
The Nail is, in my version, a temple. But one that acts as a manse.
Inside of the Manse, sealed within a hearthstone that has an artifact constructed around it, lies the prison. An inner world that shows those who enter a more...positive life. One where they never exalted.
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 7:55
oh, lotus eater
Silent Maid of Ash (He/Him) — 06.08.2021 7:55
The Artifact is nigh impossible to move. Not impossible, because Exalted, but every meter it moves away from the Nail, it doubles in weight
And yeah, it's a lotus eater, but one that I think is a bit more interesting in execution because it doesn't make everything perfect and amazing.
One of the NPC solars who was planning on breaking out people from it, though, realized 'shit. This is probably a better life than anything in creation.' Even after they escaped.
DiurnalKnight! — 06.08.2021 8:03
weight, or mass?
mourge40k — 06.08.2021 8:09
Oh god, they're about to ask the Dawn how to do it.
Silent Maid of Ash (He/Him) — 06.08.2021 8:10
It be heavy and hard to move
The specifics aren't super important
Also, oof, asking the dawn
mourge40k — 06.08.2021 8:12
Crescent's advice is gonna be "You can't."
Because seriously, how the fuck do you keep a Night captive for due process to occur?
Alistair — 06.08.2021 8:13
You don't
You extrajudicially murder them
Or you use magic to mess with their mind but then they cannot be "present" for due process
DiurnalKnight! — 06.08.2021 8:18
I mean I ask because like
if it's WEIGHT
you can just toss it while it's near the dingus
and the momentum will carry is super far still
Sokarera — 06.08.2021 8:18
it's magic
we dont gotta explain shit
Silent Maid of Ash (He/Him) — 06.08.2021 8:24
Characters that enter get a chance to try and keep some memories
## соотношение каст соларов

Jen — 07.02.2025 12:11
Dawn = Tiger = Valor = Spear = South
Zenith = Bull = Temperament = Shield = West
Twilight = Spider = Compassion = Laurel  = East
Night = Wolf = Conviction = Horn = North
Eclipse = Falcon = ? = ? = Center (изменено)

Aah it looks like i can’t really have each animal holding his iconic thing
Since he only has 4 things but 5 castes

Dawns actually have East as their Direction.
Dawn: East
Zenith: South
Twilight: West
Night: North
Eclipse: Center

They also have elements
Dawn: Fire
Zenith: Earth
Twilight: Wood
Night: Water
Eclipse: Air

They... do not match the directions

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:47
I wonder if the directions are mostly based on the animal location
Bull = south, tiger = east jungle,…etc
I can’t explain spider = ocean/island though


Mobbl 600083859 — 07.02.2025 14:48
Always thought of the Zenith´s as the center, being the actual high priests and a zenith being usual the highest point of something
НОВОЕ

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:49
Earth cos they're the centre. South cos that's where the sun is at it's zenith
[14:50]
that's also why dawn is east and twilight is west

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:50
Oh i just saw a theory that eclipse representing his Willpower instead of inventing a fifth virtue
НОВОЕ

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:50
That would match the heart grace being willpower for fae I guess

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:50
I can’t remember if arms of the unconquered sun has any explanation
НОВОЕ

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:51
the fifth arm is his heart
[14:51]
it does all fit

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:51
The falcon holding a heart with it mouth
[14:51]
I can’t decide if looks spooky or thematic
НОВОЕ
[14:52]
Gurgh I forgot that bull don’t have hands

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:52
Depends how realistic/stylised you draw the heart

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:52
They have hoof so they can’t hold an object…

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:52
mouth
НОВОЕ
[14:53]
or hung over a horn, depending on the object

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:53
Bull is zenith so it gonna be his shield

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:53
maybe just strapped to them?
НОВОЕ

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:54
Spooky phantom hands holding it or just the animals gripping them with their mouth gonna be it yeah

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:54
where are you getting the objects from, anyway?
НОВОЕ
[14:55]
Like obviously they're the fulcrums but I don't see any caste-virtue mapping in the descriptions (изменено)
НОВОЕ

Jen
Bull is zenith so it gonna be his shield

Fin (He/They) — 07.02.2025 14:55
Maybe it's lodged between its horns like how Hathor holds a sun disk in her horn as a crown?
НОВОЕ
[14:55]

НОВОЕ
[14:55]
Like this.

Elfive
where are you getting the objects from, anyway?

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:56
Oh I started with Dawn and Zenith being obviously valor and temperament, and just yolo the other 2 
[14:56]
Night fits quite good with Conviction
НОВОЕ
[14:57]
Only the twilight = compassion pair is eeeeeeeh
НОВОЕ

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:57
I suppose
[14:57]
Dawns are called the Spears of Morning but that's the only time it lines up
[14:57]
officially
[14:58]
If anything Eclipses could be compassion. they're the diplomats
[14:58]
(though I suppose twilights do get medicine)
НОВОЕ

Fin (He/They)
Нажмите, чтобы посмотреть вложение

Jen — 07.02.2025 14:58
A round shield can probably work yeah https://i.redd.it/dubk8i4v9fea1.jpg

НОВОЕ

Fin (He/They) — 07.02.2025 14:59
Which Virtue does the horn represent? Glories show that its power bind demons to its call so it could be used for Eclipses.

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:59
Horn is conviction

Fin (He/They) — 07.02.2025 14:59
Not very Eclipse.
НОВОЕ

Elfive — 07.02.2025 14:59
Spear: Valor
Shield: Temperance
Horn: Conviction
Laurel: Compassion

Moggle — 07.02.2025 15:02
Conviction is more Zenith than Eclipse.

Elfive — 07.02.2025 15:02
Willpower for twilight works pretty well since they're the archetypal sorcerers and that takes lots of WP
НОВОЕ
[15:03]
Conviction works pretty well for night castes (assassins and all that) and horns are associated with darkness thanks to Erembor
НОВОЕ

DrTentacles — 07.02.2025 16:29
Eclipse is the "outlier" so doesn't link with a virtue, AFIAK.

Marital_Arts_Advocate.exe — 07.02.2025 16:35
Horn-as-conviction is meant to represent Conviction as a guiding principle. The Horn is a war horn, something used to direct armies and command them, to keep them ordered and organized.
[16:36]
You blow the horn to tell them to go. You blow the horn to tell them to stop. You blow the horn to say the mission has begun.
[16:37]
Even the Laural is itself built around war concepts, more specifically the diplomatic moments that happen between wars. An offering that the battles can end.
[16:38]
The Unconquered Sun carried a LOT of war god imagery in 1e because he was built in part around the trappings of roman emperors and depictions of them.
НОВОЕ

BulletProf, Sodalite Zero — 07.02.2025 17:11
Ngl way long ago when I heard about  virtues and their associations to the Sun's symbols, I did not immediately get which symbol was associated with which virtue, and so the only one I got right was the Shield and Temperance
[17:11]
I thought Horn was was drinking Horn, and immediately associated it to Compassion
[17:12]
Then Spear became Conviction and the Laurel became Valor in my mind
[17:12]
Only like, 2 years later in chatting in this server did I realise my assumptions were incorrect (изменено)

Jen — 07.02.2025 17:14
Oh right GoD described him as chief war god of heaven
[17:14]
I don’t think it get picked up on anywhere else though
[17:14]
Aside from Ahlat being buddy buddy with him

? — 07.02.2025 17:53
Nah, he's still described as such in 3e
НОВОЕ
[17:54]
War has always been part of the Sun's purview

Jen — 07.02.2025 18:50
Oh yeah i’m more thinking other places referring that fact
НОВОЕ
[18:51]
Like mars or other war gods writeup interacting with it
[18:51]
Since i can’t really think of what it means in practice

Fin (He/They) — 07.02.2025 18:53
Sol is a war god in a way that he is the one that led Heaven to war, while Mars is the goddess of battles in the way that she is the one that facilitates the fates of wars and conflicts

DrTentacles — 07.02.2025 19:11
I do also see the Sun's aspects as "Aspects of Rulership" -- a King is a Warrior, a King is a Priest, a King is a Scholar, a King is a  Diplomat. (I don't know how I fit Night into this.) (изменено)

Fin (He/They) — 07.02.2025 19:20
A King knows that it is the King's duty to dirty his hand to protect the people?

No @ping Girlnemesis Loop — 07.02.2025 19:21
All Kings Are Bastards?

2
НОВОЕ

Fin (He/They) — 07.02.2025 19:22
All Kings are Backstabbers.

Fin (He/They)
Sol is a war god in a way that he is the one that led Heaven to war, while Mars is the goddess of battles in the way that she is the one that facilitates the fates of wars and conflicts

Jen — 07.02.2025 19:46
I guess that explain why there are no interaction with that fact in any npcs writeup
НОВОЕ
[19:46]
Since the only time it would come up would be during their rebel

## пр
Екатерина /Kimiko, [02.03.2025 2:02]
Torch-Pine Pollen Oracle — 27.02.2025 8:50
I feel like I always see these merits get grouped into like the same 3 broad archetypes. I bolded the merits that usually end up at 4-5 Leader (Allies, Cult, Contacts, Command, Followers, Influence, Retainers) they're tied to a people who they lead, Prince (Allies, Backing, Contacts, Followers, Influence, Retainers, Resources) they're tied to society which they run or influence; Agent (Allies, Backing, Contacts, Familiar, Mentor, Retainer) they're tied to a single organization they work for or act on behalf of

Екатерина /Kimiko, [02.03.2025 2:23]
Blaque (blob-wrangler, he/him) — Вчера, в 9:05
I think a thing mostly is that :
1e had it be this like, Tier 0 sorcery thing with a lot of complexity and different subsystems with unclear use. But at the same time, it tried to at elast be aware that htere is something different ot enchanting stuff htan geomancy, ferex.
2e had the simplified Occult specilaty thing, with an aim of also being Useful for Exalted PCs I GUess. But had severe mission creep and also built on metaphysics unique to 2e. It also kind of led to alot of the over-engineering of the setting in 2e.
3e was kind of too hard a resposne to 2e. It turned thaumaturgy effectively inot "misc. unique magic" which isn't like, out of hteme for the word. It's basically a colleciton of Misc. Supernatural Merits. I feel the issue si the corebook, like in a lot ofthings, schose some of the shittiest possible things as exmaples to sell it and thus rendered it seemingly pointless/a waste.

Екатерина /Kimiko, [02.03.2025 2:26]
Blaque (blob-wrangler, he/him) — Вчера, в 9:20
1e had an idea of what thaum was but implimented it poorly
2e had better implementation but I don't think was clear onw hat thaum was supposed to bein in the corebook
3e had an idea of what thaum was supposed to not be, but not a real good idea of whtit should be either conceptuailly or mechancailly