---
status:
  - research
---
**Bottomless Depths Defense** (5m, 1ahl [+1wp, expend Water Aura]; Reflexive; Instant; Decisive-only, Perilous, Water): Before a decisive attack against Deled is rolled, he rolls 8 dice, unmodified by other effects. Each success cancels a level of damage against him, minimum one. Can pay one Willpower and expend Water Aura to negate all damage instead. Once per day, unless reset by being hit by three decisive attacks from nontrivial foes without taking damage. 

**Still Waters Run Deep** (5m, 2i; Reflexive; Instant; Withering-only; Essence 1): Afondha gains bonus soak equal to the number of dice that show failures in the attack roll, or double that amount if she is partially or fully submerged in her aquifer’s water. Activate this Charm before the attacker rolls

**Aqueous Rebirth** (5m, 1i; Reflexive; Instant; Essence 1): Afondha briefly dissolves into water. She may automatically succeed on a disengage attempt. Alternatively, she may roll Dexterity + Cult (7 dice) while being grappled to reduce the opponent’s turns of control by the number of successes she rolls. If this reduces the turns of control to zero, she gains two Initiative.

**Flowing Body Dispersal** (4m, 2i; Reflexive; Instant; Essence 6): Fakharu’s body becomes liquid as he is struck, letting attacks pass through it as though it were water. Every die that came up a 1 or 2 on the attack roll subtracts a success from both the attack and damage rolls. 

**River-Drinking Renewal** (30m, 1wp; Simple; Instant; Perilous; Essence 6): Fakharu may drain the water from a large cistern, lake, river, or similar body of water within medium range in order to heal wounds, rolling his Initiative and healing levels of damage equal to the successes. 

**Ripples-on-Water Defense** (4m; Reflexive; Instant; Aura, Dual): Against a withering attack roll, up to four 1s subtract successes. Against a decisive attack roll, up to four 1s reroll successes, starting with 7s and going up